Changelog
=========

Version 0.10.1
-------------

*2025-11-16*

**Changes:**

- Fixed writing long strings using ``writeByteSizeString`` `#47 <https://github.com/Perlence/PyGuitarPro/pull/47>`_.
- Fixed writing long notice lines.
- Refactored the IO methods in GPFileBase.


Version 0.10
-------------

*2025-08-31*

**Backward-incompatible changes:**

- Dropped support for Python 3.7.
- Dropped support for Python 3.8.
- Removed the ``guitarpro.__version__`` attribute.

**Changes:**

- Fixed ``GP3File.getTiedNoteValue`` `#46 <https://github.com/Perlence/PyGuitarPro/issues/46>`_.


Version 0.9.3
-------------

*2023-02-22*

**Changes:**

- Fixed ``GraceEffect.durationTime`` `#34 <https://github.com/Perlence/PyGuitarPro/issues/34>`_.
- Fixed hashing `#31 <https://github.com/Perlence/PyGuitarPro/issues/31>`_.
- Improved the type checking support for models.
- Fixed ``Song.newMeasure``.


Version 0.9.2
-------------

*2022-06-26*

**Changes:**

- Enabled passing ``bytes`` to the ``parse`` and ``write`` functions.


Version 0.9.1
-------------

*2022-06-26*

**Changes:**

- Enabled passing `PathLike <https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.html#os.PathLike>`_ objects to the ``parse`` and
  ``write`` functions.
- Fixed reading and writing measure headers in Guitar Pro 5.


Version 0.9
-----------

*2022-01-23*

**Backward-incompatible changes:**

- Aligned the ``GuitarString`` representation with scientific pitch notation.
- Dropped support for Python 3.6.

**Changes:**

- Switched to the hash function generated by attrs.


Version 0.8
-----------

*2020-11-21*

**Backward-incompatible changes:**

- Dropped support for Python 2.7.
- Dropped support for Python 3.4.
- Dropped support for Python 3.5.
- Removed the ``Fingering.unknown`` member.
- Removed the misleading ``MeasureHeader.tempo`` and ``Measure.tempo`` attributes.
- Removed the unused ``Beat.index`` attribute.
- Removed the unused ``Color.a`` attribute.
- Removed the unused ``MeasureHeader.hasMarker`` property.
- Removed the unused ``BeatStroke.getIncrementTime`` method.
- Removed the unused ``Tempo`` class.
- Changed the ``Beat.text`` type to ``str`` and removed the ``BeatText`` class.
- Implemented lenient handling of unknown ``Fingering``, ``NoteType``, ``ChordType``, ``ChordExtension`` values
  `#18 <https://github.com/Perlence/PyGuitarPro/issues/18>`_.
- Functions ``guitarpro.parse`` and ``guitarpro.write`` no longer close the passed file object.

**Changes:**

- Added type hints.
- Annotated read and write errors with track, measure, voice, and beat numbers.
- Moved the ``end`` property from ``Measure`` to ``MeasureHeader``.
- Truncated the ``MeasureHeader.repeatAlternative`` to 8 bits when writing GP5 file.
- Fixed the vibrato and harmonics when converting a GP3 file to the newer versions.


Version 0.7
-----------

*2020-09-25*

**Backward-incompatible changes:**

- Removed the deprecated ``Beat.realStart`` property.
- Made ``Tuplet.convertTime()`` and ``Duration.time`` return ``int`` for whole times and ``Fraction`` for rational
  times.

**Changes:**

- Fixed creating durations from dotted tuplets `#16 <https://github.com/Perlence/PyGuitarPro/issues/16>`_.


Version 0.6
-----------

*2020-01-19*

**Backward-incompatible changes:**

- Removed the deprecated ``Duration.isDoubleDotted`` property.

**Deprecations:**

- Deprecated the usage of ``Beat.realStart`` in favor of ``Beat.startInMeasure``. The former will be removed in the next
  release.

**Changes:**

- Updated `attrs <https://attrs.readthedocs.io>`_ to at least 19.2.


Version 0.5
-----------

*2018-10-21*

**Backward-incompatible changes:**

- Changed the implementation of ``Duration.fromTime`` and removed its ``minimum`` and ``diff`` arguments. Now it raises
  a ``ValueError`` if given time cannot be displayed in Guitar Pro.

**Deprecations:**

- Deprecated the usage of ``Duration.isDoubleDotted`` because it's not supported in Guitar Pro 3-5. Setting values
  to this attribute will issue a warning. The attribute will be completely removed in the next release.

**Changes:**

- Fixed a bug that causes chord information to be lost `#10 <https://github.com/Perlence/PyGuitarPro/pull/10>`_.
- Allowed 13-tuplets to be written.
- Fixed hashing.
- Removed wordy reprs on ``Lyrics``, ``Song``, ``MeasureHeader``, ``TrackRSE``, ``Track``, ``Measure``, ``Voice``,
  ``Beat``, ``NoteEffect`` instances. To see an object in somewhat human-readable form use the following snippet:

  .. code-block:: python

      import attr
      attr.astuple(track, recurse=False)

Version 0.4
-----------

*2018-04-14*

**Backward-incompatible changes:**

- Changed default instantiation behaviour of ``Song``, ``Track``, and ``Measure`` objects `#4
  <https://github.com/Perlence/PyGuitarPro/issues/4>`_. When ``Track`` is created without ``measures`` argument, it
  automatically creates a ``MeasureHeader`` with a ``Measure`` that has two ``Voices`` in it. To create a track without
  measures, do:

  .. code-block:: python

      track = guitarpro.Track(base_song, measures=[])

- Changed how measure headers are compared. Comparing measures won't consider measure headers. Measure headers are
  stored in ``Song`` instances, so they will be compared there.

- Implemented gradual wah-wah changes. There's no ``WahState`` enum, ``WahEffect`` now holds the exact value of wah-wah
  pedal position.

**Changes:**

- Updated `attrs <https://attrs.readthedocs.io>`_ to at least 17.1.
- Fixed note order in beats before writing.
- Fixed chord reading when there's no fingering.


Version 0.3.1
-------------

*2017-02-13*

**Changes:**

- Made models hashable again.


Version 0.3
-----------

*2017-02-10*

**Changes:**

- Removed ``Note.deadNote`` attribute.
- Fixed track order changes.
- Removed attribute ``Marker.measureHeader``.
- Provided better default values for some models.
- Implemented clipboard files handling.
- Replaced ``GPObject`` with `attrs <https://attrs.readthedocs.io>`_ class decorator.
- Reimplemented version handling. Keyword ``version`` of functions ``parse`` and ``write`` expects a version tuple.
- Moved class ``GPFileBase`` to module ``guitarpro.iobase``, and renamed module ``guitarpro.base`` to
  ``guitarpro.models``.
- Exported all models alongside with functions ``parse`` and ``write`` from ``guitarpro`` module.
  Now they can be accessed as ``guitarpro.Song``, for example.
- Swapped beat stroke directions. Downstroke is represented by ``BeatStrokeDirection.down`` and upstroke is represented
  by ``BeatStrokeDirection.up``.
- Resolved issue `#1 <https://github.com/Perlence/PyGuitarPro/issues/1>`_. Now it's easier to create a tab from scratch.

Minor changes:

- Replaced nosetest with pytest.


Version 0.2.2
-------------

*2014-04-01*

**Changes:**

- Fixed ``NoteType`` enumeration.
- Included examples into sdist.
- Create ``tests.OUTPUT`` directory before running tests.
- Type coercion before writing data (fixes py3k compatibility).


Version 0.2.1
-------------

*2014-03-30*

**Changes:**

- Converted Markdown docs to reST docs.
- Added ``MANIFEST.in``.


Version 0.2
-----------

*2014-03-30*

**Changes:**

- Added Python 3 compatibility.
- Added documentation.
- Added support for RSE.
- Added automated tests using ``nose``.
- Fixed harmonics conversion.
- Converted some classes to ``Enum`` subclasses.
- Added support for chord diagrams.
- Added generic arguments to ``GPObject.__init__``.
- Cleaned up the code.


Version 0.1
-----------

*2014-03-11*

First public release.

.. vim: tw=120 cc=121
